hi this lesson focuses on the third part
of the speaking test
the discussion this part of the speaking
test will last for three to four minutes
we begin by understanding what is
included in part 3 of the speaking task
how many parts there are to it and then
talk about some tips for how to answer
this part of the speaking test after
this lesson there is a short practice
exercise followed by a methods lesson
the methods lesson tells you how to
approach this part of the speaking task
in more detail but now this get started
by talking about each section of part 3
to better understand how you're required
to answer it what to expect
in this part of the speaking tasks the
interviewer will ask you some more
in-depth questions based on the topic
you talked about in part two the
questions are not so much about your
personal experience but more about your
opinion on the topic there are no right
or wrong answers you're not being
assessed on your opinion on the topic
but you are being assessed on your
ability to maintain the conversation
this part of the speaking task requires
a higher level of English and a more
sophisticated use of vocabulary and
grammar so you will need to support your
ideas with more detailed explanations if
you remember from part two of the
speaking test the example tasks card we
looked at asked you to describe a
childhood friend so in part 3 you have a
discussion with the examiner on the
importance of friendship or the role
friendship plays in our lives let's have
a look at a couple of example discussion
questions on this topic why do you think
it's important for children to make
friends do you think friendships are
just as important as family
relationships some people think it's
harder to make friends as we get older
what do you think tips if you get stuck
on a question or need time to think
there are some expressions you can use
like that's an interesting question well
let me think about that remember short
yes or no answers will not get you a
high school try to explain your answers
and give examples or even give a short
story from your personal experience if
the examiner asks you something you
don't understand don't worry there's
nothing wrong with asking for
clarification on the question but if all
of saying things like what or I don't
understand use this as a chance to show
off your great communication skills by
saying something like sorry could you
please explain by what you mean by that
or I didn't quite catch that would you
mind repeating it or I'm not sure I know
what you mean because you please explain
summary in this lesson we looked at part
3 of the speaking task we saw that this
part will be a two-way discussion about
the topic you spoke about in part 2 in
preparing for this task you quickly
learn that practice is important
although you are speaking about a
general topic this part of the speaking
task requires you to speak in more depth
and think a little bit more critically
about the topic we'll talk about this in
more detail in the methods lesson but
for now be sure to do the practice
exercises that follow this lesson thanks
for watching